- Once you've decided to explore a career
in software development,
it's important to establish goals
that will guide your learning progression.
When creating these goals,
I recommend using a top-down approach.
It's best to start out by defining your long-term goals
then break them down into short-term goals
that will help you accomplish them.
Your goal should be specific to you
but let's look at some examples of long-term goals
for when you're just starting out.
One long-term goal for most new developers
is to build a small website
using the foundational web technologies.
It might look something like this:
over the next six months,
I'll build my own blog using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
This goal is well structured because it's time-boxed
and targets specific front-end technologies
you'll need to learn to build the blog.
It also specifies a clear outcome
which is the project you'll build
to gain hands-on experience
working with each web technology.
After you build the blog,
you can use it to showcase your skills
with potential employers
and can iterate upon it
to practice the next set of skills you'll want to learn.
For example,
maybe you'll establish another long-term goal
to learn about Java and do some back-end development
in the last six months of the year.
Once you learn the basics of Java,
you can enhance the blog
to store and retrieve its post from a database.
Or if you want to learn a JavaScript framework,
you can update the front-end
to use something like Angular or React.
Whatever your goals might be,
make sure they have a completion date
and one that's achievable.
This lets you advance at a sustainable pace,
and it's important
for scheduling your development.
When setting up long-term goals at this stage
it's important to make them progressive.
Initially, you'll want to target foundational skills.
So for the front-end,
it's the web technologies,
HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
And for the back-end,
you'll want to stick with popular server-side languages,
like Java,
C#,
Python, or Node.js.
Early on, it's really important to sequence these goals
in the right order.
If you tried to learn a framework
like React before the web technologies,
you're going to end up frustrated,
it would be like trying to learn algebra
before you learned basic arithmetic.
It'll be tempting to include some career goals at this point
but I suggest keeping your initial goals learning-oriented.
Then, after completing a few short-term goals,
you'll have more information to decide
if you want to invest further
in pursuing a career in software development.
So let's talk about those short-term goals.
Here's where you get a little bit more specific
and break down what you need to do
to achieve your long-term goals.
Let me show you how,
by breaking down one of the example long-term goals
we discussed.
Before diving into any specific languages,
I'd set a short-term goal
to just learn the purpose of each web technology
and how they work to build a webpage.
Something like learn how web technologies interact
to form a webpage.
Then I would recommend moving on to HTML
because both CSS and JavaScript
rely upon it being present in the browser,
which you would learn from the first goal.
So let's tie this one together.
We'll say that we want to learn about HTML tags
and how they're structured to build the basic web pages
in my blog.
After you learn the basics of HTML,
you'll probably want to style those web pages.
So let's create another short-term goal
to learn how to use CSS roles
to style and lay out the pages in the blog.
Then you might move on
to learn how JavaScript
can make your page a bit more dynamic.
This will be a little more difficult to learn
since it's a full-blown programming language,
so let's chunk this out into a few separate goals.
First, I would aim to learn some basics
of a programming language,
and then apply those
to create some small JavaScript programs.
Once you're comfortable with the basics,
you can apply that knowledge
to learning how to work with HTML elements
in the browser with JavaScript web APIs.
You'll want to support that goal with some project work,
something like adding a filtering capability
to your blog that allows users to search for posts.
Now that we've established a long-term goal
and broke it down
into some progressively sequenced short-term goals,
we can turn this into an actionable learning plan
which is where we'll pick up in the next lesson.